# home_security_system
This repository contains the codes for implementing the home security system on Arduino.
This security system consists of smart password protected door and the gas, fire and smoke alarm.This code is used for implementing a KEYPAD 4*4, LCD 16*2, a servo motor(for controlling the knob of the door), gas sensor(MQ2/MQ6), TEMP sensor and a Buzzer.The door is password protected which is preset in the code. Once you enter the correct password using the keypad, the servo rotates thus rotating the knob and opening the door which remains open for the 15 seconds and a count of 15 secs shows on the lcd screen. Also, the password, a 4 digit number, is visible on the lcd screen while entering. for additional security purpose, only the first three digits of the password will be visible on the screen and once you entered the 4th digit coorectly, the gate will be open. In case of entering the wrong password, a message indicating wrong password will pop up on screen. Now after 15 secs of opening the door, when it gets closed, the sensors activate and in case of any kind of smoke or gas leakage or fire, the buzzer will sound. based on the intensity of the reading of sensors, there will be three levels of sound. As the reading of the sensors gets higher, the frequency of the sound will keep going higher. Based on the sound, the intensity of the acccident can be assumed and the actions can be taken as per requirement.This security system covers all the requirements for a secure housing and is ready to be implemented in the industry. 
